Fetching: https://aish.com/28-kashrut-2/
[2026-03-17 07:44:15] INFO: Fetched (200) <GET https://aish.com/28-kashrut-2/> (referer: https://www.google.com/search?q=aish)
Status: 200
What is Kosher Food? | Aish
Search for:
Explore
Learn
More
Subscribe
Donate
Aish.com
Judaism 101
What is Kosher Food?
Advertisements
JEWISH GOOD NEWS
March 15 2026
A Historic Synagogue In Australia Reopens
Even When Missiles Fly and Sirens Wail, Love Prevails
Jewish Pride Courtside 🏀
TRENDING IN JUDAISM 101
Miscellaneous Mitzvot
God’s First Command to the Jewish People in Egypt
 3
min read
Miscellaneous Mitzvot
Daily Jewish Habits that Transform Your Life
 3
min read
Miscellaneous Mitzvot
When Caring for Parents Takes Up So Much of Your Time
 3
min read
Miscellaneous Mitzvot
Honoring Abusive Parents
 5
min read
Advertisements

				by 
Rabbi Shraga Simmons
 14
min read
All about kosher food. And why keep kosher in the first place?
It seems like part and parcel of Jewish life is delicious 
kosher food
The Hebrew word "kosher" literally means "prepared." Foods that are permitted by the Torah, and prepared according to Jewish law are kosher.
1
Actually the word kosher can be applied to any item that is prepared in accordance with halacha. Thus we find such expressions as kosher tefillin, a kosher mezuzah, and a kosher etrog – meaning that they satisfy the requirements of Jewish law for ritual use. An ethical person who lives his life in accordance with Torah teachings is called an 
Adam Kasher
Similarly, the word "treif" is often used to designate anything which is not kosher, although the term technically applies only to an animal whose organs are damaged or diseased. (see below)
In this lesson, we'll give a broad overview of what makes food "kosher," and at the end we'll examine some of the philosophical underpinnings of the kosher concept.
Kosher Species
1. Animals
The Torah says that two signs identify an animal as a kosher species: fully split hooves, and chewing the cud (rumination).
2
2. Birds
The Torah enumerates 24 forbidden species of birds
3
3. Fish
The Torah teaches that a kosher fish must possess both fins and scales.
4
5
Crustaceans (such as lobster and crab) and other shellfish (such as clams) are not kosher, because they lack scales. Further, all aquatic mammals (e.g. whales and dolphins) are not kosher.
And yes, there are kosher varieties of sushi and caviar – providing it's from a kosher species (fins and scales), and that it was prepared with kosher utensils (knife, cutting board, etc.).
4. Insects
Many are surprised to discover that four species of grasshoppers are kosher.
6
Kosher Slaughtering
1. Shechita 
Besides being from a kosher species, kosher meat requires that the animal/bird be slaughtered in the manner prescribed by the Torah (
Shechita
7
8
shochet
9
2. Bedika
After the animal/bird has been properly slaughtered, if there is reason to believe that the internal organs are damaged, they should be inspected for any physiological abnormalities that may render the animal non-kosher (
treif
10
sirchot
11
3. Nikkur
Animals contain many veins (e.g. 
Gid HaNashe
12
chelev
13
4. Melicha
The Torah forbids eating of the blood of an 

[... truncated at 3000 chars]
